docs(cloud-cli): add Cloud CLI integration page (#6746)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: docs/cloud/integrations/cloud-cli.mdx

---
title: 'Cypress Cloud CLI: Debug CI failures from your terminal'
description: 'Query Cypress Cloud runs, tests, and Test Replay data from the command line with the cy-cloud CLI. Built for developers and AI agents.'
sidebar_label: Cloud CLI
sidebar_position: 65
sidebar_custom_props: { 'ai_icon': true, 'new_label': true }
---

<ProductHeading product="cloud" />

# Cloud CLI: Debug from your terminal

> The Cypress Cloud CLI (`cy-cloud`) brings your Cypress Cloud data to the command line. Check the status of a CI run, pull the screenshot of a failed test, or replay the exact commands, network calls, and console logs that led to a failure, all without opening a browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cypress Cloud CLI (`cy-cloud`) brings your Cypress Cloud data to the command line. Check the status of a CI run, pull the screenshot of a failed test, or review the exact commands, network calls, and console logs captured by Test Replay that led to a failure, all without opening a browser.
```

Every command returns structured JSON, so the CLI is equally at home in a shell script, a CI job, or an [AI coding agent](#Use-with-AI-agents).

:::info

> <WhatYoullLearn />

Reviewer: do we really need this section? I tend to find these are huge blocks of texts I never read cuz I look for the section headings

the MCP one was recently removed I believe

Author: I am slowly learning towards removing this overall 😅 I tried to remove them in the docs in totality at some point though and it was more difficult to get a quick overview without scanning the entirety of a long sidebar.

- How the Cloud CLI helps you debug CI failures without leaving your terminal
- How to install and authenticate `cy-cloud`
- The full command reference for orgs, projects, runs, specs, tests, and replays
- A step-by-step workflow for triaging a failing run
- How caching, rate limits, output schemas, and configuration work

:::

:::note

> The Cloud CLI is available on **every Cypress Cloud plan**, including the free Starter plan, at no additional cost. An organization admin enables it once from the organization's **Integrations** page.

Reviewer: Ideally this would match the Cloud MCP language and bolding

```suggestion
The Cloud CLI is available on **every Cypress Cloud plan**, including the free Starter plan, at no additional cost.
```

:::

## Why the Cloud CLI

> When a test fails in CI, the friction is rarely the fix. It is the triage: finding the run, opening the right test, reading the error, and reconstructing what the app was doing at the moment it failed. That usually means leaving your editor, signing in to Cypress Cloud, clicking to the run, finding the failing spec and test, then putting the pieces together on the Test Replay of what contributed to the failure.

Reviewer: I think this over-indexes on test failure resolution a bit for why Cloud CLI. "When a test fails in CI, the friction is rarely the fix."  is a odd sentence, its essentially state the root-cause-analysis is the issue, i.e. triaging and getting to what is needed to be solved

- **Automate it.** Because output is JSON, you can wire the CLI into scripts, dashboards, and custom tooling.
- **Hand it to an agent.** The CLI is designed for both humans and AI agents, so your coding assistant can gather the same context you would.
- **Grab a failure screenshot.** Save the screenshot Cypress captured at the moment a test failed straight to disk.

## How it works

The CLI authenticates you against Cypress Cloud, then calls the Cypress Cloud API on your behalf. Data you retrieve is scoped to the same organizations, [teams](/cloud/account-management/teams), and projects your Cypress Cloud user can already see. Access follows your role and team assignments, so the CLI never returns a project you could not open in the Cloud UI.

1. **Authenticate** once with `cy-cloud login` (OAuth) or a personal access token.
2. **Query** your Cloud data with commands like `run list`, `test get`, and `replay timeline`.
3. **Receive JSON** on standard output, ready to read, pipe, or parse.

Replay data is downloaded once and [cached locally](#Caching), so repeated queries against the same test are fast and do not re-download data.

> 

Reviewer: What I like about the MCP docs is there gruopg for getting setup:

## Configure the Cloud CLI
### Requirements
### Enable for Organization
### Install the CLI
### Authenticate

I felt this was good for the navigational hierarchy structure. The `## Keep the CLI updated` content is good, I dont' really think it's that novel to have its own nav bar section

## Requirements

To use the Cloud CLI you must:

- Have a [Cypress Cloud](https://cloud.cypress.io) account.
- Have the Cloud CLI integration enabled for your organization. An organization admin enables it from the organization's **Integrations** page in Cypress Cloud.
- Be running [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) `22.21.0` or later.

:::note

> The Cloud CLI reads recorded run data. Your tests still run and record the same way they do today, using `cypress run --record`. See [Recording Cloud Runs](/cloud/features/recorded-runs) if you have not set up recording yet.

Reviewer: This is a good note, not sure it should be in the requirements section, Feels a bit random to me

cy-cloud login
```

Your browser opens a Cypress Cloud authorization page. Confirm the signed-in account and select **Allow** to grant the CLI access for the next 30 days.

<DocsImage
  src="/img/cloud/integrations/cloud-cli/cloud-cli-oauth-authorize.png"
  alt="Browser authorization page for the Cypress Cloud CLI showing the signed-in user with Allow and Deny buttons"
/>

If the browser does not open automatically, the CLI prints a URL you can open manually. You can set how many seconds the CLI waits for the sign-in to complete (the default is 120 seconds):

```bash
cy-cloud login --timeout 180
```

### Personal access token

Generate a personal access token from your [Cypress Cloud profile](https://cloud.cypress.io/profile): in the **Cloud CLI access** section, under **Personal access token**, select **Generate token**, choose an expiration, and copy the token (it is shown only once). Access is scoped to your role and permissions in each organization.

<DocsImage
  src="/img/cloud/integrations/cloud-cli/cloud-cli-access-pat.png"
  alt="Cloud CLI access section on the Cypress Cloud profile page, showing the OAuth and Personal Access Token options with a Generate token button"
/>

> If you prefer a token, or your environment cannot open a browser, pass it to `login`. The CLI checks the token with Cypress Cloud and, if it is valid, saves it to a credentials file (`~/.config/cy-cloud/auth.json`, readable only by your user) so later commands reuse it without you passing it each time:

Reviewer: This feels like it should be the intro paragraph of "why PAT"  before surfacing "how to get one"

```bash
cy-cloud login --token <YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>
```

> ### Environment variable (best for CI)

Reviewer: This feels like a subsection to the PAT

<OsTabs>
  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS / Linux">

```bash
export CYPRESS_CLOUD_TOKEN=<YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>
cy-cloud run list --projectId <projectId>
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">

```shell title="Command Prompt"
set CYPRESS_CLOUD_TOKEN=<YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>
cy-cloud run list --projectId <projectId>
```

```shell title="PowerShell"
$env:CYPRESS_CLOUD_TOKEN = "<YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>"
cy-cloud run list --projectId <projectId>
```

  </TabItem>
</OsTabs>

:::note

`cy-cloud logout` clears credentials stored by `login`. It does not unset `CYPRESS_CLOUD_TOKEN`. If that variable is set, you remain authenticated through it until you unset it.

:::

Check your current authentication state at any time:

```bash
cy-cloud status
```

`"authenticated": true` is the signal that you are signed in. `method` is `oauth` or `pat`, and `expiresAt`, when present, is when an OAuth session refreshes:

```json
{
  "authenticated": true,
  "method": "oauth",
  "expiresAt": "2026-07-21T18:30:00.000Z"
}
```

> If you are not signed in, `authenticated` is `false` and the other fields are omitted.

Reviewer: Is this helpful to include? It's informational, but its a pretty long doc and not sure how many people need these specifics

## Output format and schemas

Every data command prints JSON to standard output, so you can pipe results into other tools. For example, print the run numbers of the last five failed runs on `main` with [`jq`](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/):

```bash
cy-cloud run list --projectId <projectId> --branch main --status failed --limit 5 \
  | jq '.runs[].runNumber'
```

To see the exact shape of a command's output before you parse it, add `--schema`. It prints the Zod-compliant JSON schema for that command's output and makes no network call:

```bash
cy-cloud test get --schema
```

It returns a JSON Schema describing the output fields and their types, which begins like this (abbreviated):

```json
{
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "testId": { "type": "string", "format": "uuid" },
    "status": { "type": "string" },
    "attempt": { "type": "integer" },
    "state": { "type": "string" },
    "failureScreenshotPath": { "type": "string" }
  },
  "required": ["testId", "status", "attempt", "state"]
}
```

This is especially useful when generating parsing code or briefing an agent on what to expect.

> ## Exit codes

Reviewer: Does this matter to users reading this doc?

run_number=$(cy-cloud run list --projectId "$project_id" --branch "$branch" --status failed --limit 1 \
  | jq -r '.runs[0].runNumber // empty')

if [ -z "$run_number" ]; then
  echo "No failed runs on $branch."
  exit 0
fi

echo "Failing tests in run #$run_number:"

# Print each failing test's name and first error message
cy-cloud test list --projectId "$project_id" --runNumber "$run_number" --status failed \
  | jq -r '.tests[] | "- \(.testName | join(" > "))\n    \(.attempts[0].errorMessage // "no error message")"'
```

:::tip

Run any command with `--schema` (for example `cy-cloud test list --schema`) to see the exact JSON shape before you write your `jq` filters.

:::

The same approach works in CI. Install the CLI in your job and authenticate with a token from your secret store. For example, in a GitHub Actions workflow:

```yaml title=".github/workflows/triage.yml"
- name: Summarize the latest failed Cypress Cloud run
  if: always()
  env:
    CYPRESS_CLOUD_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.CYPRESS_CLOUD_TOKEN }}
  run: |
    npm install --global @cypress/cloud
    cy-cloud run list --projectId <projectId> --branch "$GITHUB_REF_NAME" --status failed --limit 1
```

> ## Caching

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test Replay Caching
```

> Replay data can cover an entire spec, so the CLI downloads a replay database once and caches it locally. Later `replay` queries for any test in that database read from the cache instead of downloading again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test Replay data can cover an entire spec, so the CLI downloads the replay once and caches it locally. The `replay` command queries Test Replay from the cache instead of downloading again.
```

- The cache lives at `~/.cache/cy-cloud` by default. Override it with the `CYCLOUD_CACHE_DIR` environment variable.

> - Entries expire after **30 days**, and the cache is capped at **1 GB** by default. When the cap is exceeded, the oldest entries are removed first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generally, entries expire after **30 days**. The cache is capped at **1 GB** by default and when the cap is exceeded, the oldest entries are removed first.
```

- Maintenance runs automatically. The CLI validates cache integrity at most once a day, and prunes expired or oversized entries after commands run.

Inspect or clear the cache at any time with the [`cache info`](#cy-cloud-cache-info) and [`cache clear`](#cy-cloud-cache-clear) commands. To turn off automatic maintenance, set `CYCLOUD_DISABLE_CACHE_MGMT=true`.

## Configuration

> The CLI stores configuration and credentials under `~/.config/cy-cloud` (or `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/cy-cloud` if that variable is set). Credentials are written with owner-only permissions.

Reviewer: > (or `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/cy-cloud` if that variable is set). 
which variable?

The following environment variables adjust its behavior:

| Variable                     | Purpose                                                                              |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `CYPRESS_CLOUD_TOKEN`        | Authenticate with a personal access token. Takes precedence over stored credentials. |
| `CYCLOUD_CACHE_DIR`          | Directory for the local replay cache. Defaults to `~/.cache/cy-cloud`.               |
| `CYCLOUD_DISABLE_CACHE_MGMT` | Set to `true` to disable automatic cache validation and cleanup.                     |

> ## Rate limits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## FAQs

### Usage limits
```

The Cloud CLI is available on all Cypress Cloud plans, and the same rate limit applies across every plan. Requests are limited **per user** to a default of **100 requests per hour**.

If you exceed the limit, requests return an error until the hour resets. Contact [support@cypress.io](mailto:support@cypress.io) if you need a higher limit.

Rate limits are separate from data availability. What data you can retrieve follows the same recording limits and [data retention](/cloud/account-management/billing-and-usage) policies as the rest of Cypress Cloud, so those limits do vary by plan. Runs beyond your retention window or usage limits are not accessible through the Cloud CLI.

> ## Security and privacy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Security and privacy
```

- **Read-only.** The CLI only retrieves data. It cannot modify your test code, delete runs, or change any Cloud settings.
- **Scoped to your access.** Every request runs as your Cypress Cloud user, so you only ever see the organizations, teams, and projects you can already access in the Cloud UI.
- **Local credentials.** Credentials from `cy-cloud login` are stored on your machine under `~/.config/cy-cloud`, in files readable only by your user. The `CYPRESS_CLOUD_TOKEN` environment variable is never written to disk.

## Restrictive VPNs and allowlists

> The Cloud CLI communicates with the Cypress Cloud API at `https://cloud-api.cypress.io`. If you run the CLI from behind a restrictive VPN or firewall, add that host to your allowlist so the CLI can reach Cloud. Sign-in also uses `https://cloud.cypress.io`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud CLI communicates with the Cypress Cloud API at `https://cloud-api.cypress.io`. If you run the CLI from behind a restrictive VPN or firewall, add that host to your allowlist so the CLI can reach Cloud. Sign-in also uses `https://cloud.cypress.io`. See the [Cypress Cloud allowlist URLs](./cloud/faq#Im-working-with-a-restrictive-VPN-Which-subdomains-do-I-have-to-allow-on-my-VPN-for-Cypress-Cloud-to-work-properly) for the full list. 
```

> <UrlAllowList />

Reviewer: I dont think these specifics are necessary for this doc
```suggestion
```

> ## Use with AI agents

Reviewer: I'd want this section next to or above the workflow examples. The CLI is definitely designed for agents and we should integrate that into the examples first-class
